What is the Civil Debate Wall? 
                     
The Civil Debate Wall—popularly known as ‘The Wall’ - is a unique, innovative
social media tool created by Local Projects (http://localprojects.net) for The
Bob Graham Center for Public Service (http://bobgrahamcenter.ufl.edu/) and
funded by a grant from the Knight Foundation. The Wall creates constructive
dialogue by providing a physical social media tool that connects large touch
screens, a texting system, and a website. These three synchronized components
create a single, seamless interactive experience for disenfranchised, younger
voters to actively engage in local, national and international issues. 

The Wall 

The physical Wall is a series of five interconnected touch-screen devices,
which allow students, teachers and citizens to share ideas and solutions to
pressing political questions facing the nation. Users post opinions or join
existing debates on questions that deal with a range of relevant subjects
varying from the environment to foreign policy. The Wall was recently erected
at the University of Florida’s Pugh Hall, home of The Bob Graham Center.

SMS 

In order to engage the new Millennial generation, the Wall allows users to
follow debates via texting. Debaters are notified via text when another person
joins the debate and can continue the discussion by texting back to the Wall.
By connecting a population that relies almost exclusively on text to
communicate, the wall will provide a social place that appeals to this mode of
communication. 

The Website 

www.CivilDebateWall.com The website component of the Wall closely mirrors the
physical Wall. The website attracts users who are not physically on campus.
Providing the same features, the website gathers users from a broader
population and allows users to keep track of debates. 

Statistics 

The Wall sifts through the key words of postings, tabulating them in dynamic
data visualization to show where agreement lies. Collected information will be
used by Knight Foundation scholars as well as users themselves to find
potential solutions. 

Help us spread the word about The Wall — and check back often to see the newest
debates and opinions. 

